Hey there everyone.
And welcome to another problem.
Now this next problem that we
have in front of us is a very
interesting problem
and actually a real world problem.
This is something that you will
be building in your application.
Maybe you'll build something
for an aeroplane system or
for a train system.
This is exactly how you build
them in the real world.
Also, we'll write
the exact same code.
Let's read the problem statement,
which is my favorite part.
You're building a ticket info
system for a railway app
or a railway application.
In short, based on the seat
type, show its features.
All right.
I don't have the idea how to show
the features or what features are
available, but we'll try our best.
The first task is take the input,
sleeper, ac, general or luxury.
So we have four categories
of them and you might be
wondering, all right, I have
to write a lot of if and else.
If the user input is sleeper
else if user input is ac, else
if the user input is general
else if you get the idea.
And then we have to match
using the match case.
So I'll show you another
interesting way.
Then once you have too many cases
to check, you can actually skip
the if else loop and the drilling
of the whole if else if, else
if, else or else if, else if.
And then we'll show the unknown.
If somebody gives us message
which is not matching into
these four categories, we'll just
show invalid seed type.
This is a very interesting
problem and a very interesting
set of code that we go ahead
and write for this one.
So we'll just go ahead and get
into the conditional and we
are going to go ahead and say
this one is train seat py.
So the step one, the obvious step is
to take input from the user.
So in this one we'll just go
ahead and say input
and we'll ask the user enter
the seat type or enter seat type.
And we'll give the user a message
that what kind of seats?
You can choose.
You can, you can choose from slipper
sleeper and you can choose from ac.
Obviously air conditioned.
You can choose from general
if you are in a hurry
and we will choose luxury.
So these are all the options
that user can choose from.
And just like always, we'll do
the lower so that we don't have
to match for so many conditions.
We can just reliably check
for a couple of conditions only.
Now let's store this into a variable.
Let's call this one as seat type.
There we go.
Now once we are done with this,
then we can use Instead of else.
If we can use a really
smart and interesting way
of writing the code that is
known as match syntax.
So what is the variable that you want
to match for variety of condition?
I want to match for a seat type
and it should be
a seat type, not tie.
Seat type.
There we go, seat type.
Now then put up
a colon and hit enter.
Now once you're done with this you
can write a keyword case and you
can match for a variety of case.
Now this case could be integer, could
be a float, it could be a string.
Lot of things you can match for.
And the first case that we
are matching for is sleeper.
If user has selected sleeper
then we want to provide
a message based on sleeper.
So for example, what are
the specialty of a sleeper?
I have no idea what user
wants to put up here.
But we'll just go ahead and say
in the sleeper you don't have ac.
So no ac.
But beds are available.
So we'll just say beds available.
So this is the features of it.
Now not only this, it also
can match for another case.
So write as many case
as you wish to have.
Let's just say another case
we want to match for is ac.
Now behind the scene, what's
happening in this is this seat type.
Whatever the variable is
behind the scene, we are
doing something like this.
Seat type is equal, equal to sleeper.
So behind the scene it is matching
for all of this AC just like this.
But we don't write this syntax
when we actually go
for the case we simply go ahead
and say if the case is ac.
So in that case we simply
go ahead and print ac.
What do we want to write in the ac?
So AC is going to be air
conditioned hopefully.
And we'll say comfy, right?
Comfy.
Right.
And we have couple of other
cases that we have to match it.
I'll just go ahead and say case.
What else you want to go for?
Maybe we want to go for next is
general and we want to print
a message for the general.
There we go.
And we will say general, these
are usually the cheapest option.
Cheapest option.
And we'll say no reservation.
Hopefully I wrote that correct.
And then we simply can have
for another case which is luxury.
And probably they give
meal in the luxury.
So I'll just go ahead and put
up a print statement
and we are going to call this one as
luxury just like this.
And we'll say premium seats
with meals.
And what about the case when
it doesn't match anything?
So in that case what we can
go ahead and simply put
up a statement case and then you
can just put an underscore.
Yes, this looks little
weird, but this is how
it works, underscore.
And then you can simply say
a print message that simply says
invalid seed type.
There we go.
So notice here it's a very strange
kind of a, mechanism if you're
seeing this for the first time.
But this actually looks much
more readable as compared
to constant if and else.
And yes, you can use
anywhere, wherever you like.
Let's go ahead and try to run
this program and first let's
check what happens when we give
any type of seat and see
if, if we're doing anything wrong.
Let's go ahead and clean this
up and we'll say Python 3 and this
time we'll run for the train seats,
enter the seat type.
I would say something
and it says invalid seat type.
All right, so at least our
last case is getting matched.
Let's run it one more time.
This time I want to say I want
to match for ac and it says ac
air conditioned, comfy ride.
And the best part about this program
is now I can just write it like
this, this general, general.
There we go.
And still it will match because
we have actually taken care
of it by putting up a lower here.
So this is a great way of how we
can actually work with that.
And trust me, these are the only
cases you want to walk through.
So in the entirety
of the program that we have written,
these are only the cases.
I've given these exercise for you
in case you want to try them
again in the same program.
But again just giving you
a walkthrough, these are the only
problems that we have.
So if we go ahead and build
the mini store, this is simple.
If and else if you want to break
for more suggestion.
This is classic if and else.
If you want to go for more
nesting of it.
Yes, we saw that as well.
We also saw that we can
use ternary operator.
We have also seen that we
can actually go ahead and do
a lot of if and else.
And another alternative of lot of if
and else is this match and case.
So I hope you have had an interesting
time in building this train
seat classification information
program and enjoyed this as well.
That is it for this video
and you know the drill.
I always ask for the reviews.
That's it for this video and catch
up in the next one.